# PyBer Analysis
## Overview
### Purpose
PyBer is a ride-sharing app company, and its CEO aims to determine affordability for underserved neighborhoods and improve overall access to services. The CEO desires to obtain data regarding the total number of rides, the total number of drivers, the total fares, the average fare per ride, the average fare per driver, and the total fares for each week for the following city types: urban, suburban, and rural. These results will allow decision makers at PyBer to address any disparities in ride-sharing participation among different cities. 
## Results
Before analyzing the data, I added the Matplotlib inline command and imported matplotlib and pandas as dependencies. To read and store the file into a Pandas DataFrame in Jupyter Notebook, I initialized the following: "city_data_df = pd.read_csv(city_data_to_load)" and "ride_data_df = pd.read_csv(ride_data_to_load)". To increase efficiency, I merged the data into a single dataset using the pd.merge() operator on "city". 

To assess the differences in ride-sharing data among the different city types, I first created three separate city type DataFrames. Each DataFrame was generated by filtering the “pyber_data_df” where the city type was set to “Urban”, “Suburban”, or “Rural”. Doing this allowed me to acquire the total number of rides for each city type more efficiently. To get the total number of rides, I initialized a "total_rides_by_type" variable and utilized a groupby() function to create a series of data that had the "type" of the city as the index. I then applied the count() method to the ”ride_id” column. 

I employed the DataFrames I created for each city type to calculate the total number of drivers for urban, suburban, and rural areas. To get the total, I initialized a "total_drivers_by_type" variable and utilized the groupby() function to create a series of data that had the "type" of city as the index. I then chained the sum() method and applied it to the “driver_count” column.

I used the DataFrames I created for each city type to calculate the sum of the fare values for urban, suburban, and rural areas. To get the total fare amount by city type, I initialized a "total_fare_by_type" variable and utilized the groupby() function to create a series of data that had the "type" of city as the index. I then chained the sum() method and applied it to the “fare” column. 

To calculate the average fare per ride for each city type, I initialized an "avg_fare_per_ride" variable. I then divided the "total_fare_by_type" by the "total_rides_by_type". 

To obtain the average fare per driver for each city type, I initialized an "avg_fare_per_driver" variable. I then divided the "total_fare_by_type" by the "total_drivers_by_type".

I then created a "pyber_ride_summary_df" using the pd.DataFrame() operator and inserted a list of dictionaries where the keys represented column names and the values were the metrics I calculated. I cleaned the DataFrame by deleting the index name. I formatted the DataFrame using the map() function so that "Total Rides" had a thousands seperator; "Total Drivers" had a thousands seperator; "Total Fares" had a thousands seperator, dollar sign, and two decimal places; "Average Fare per Ride" had a dollar sign and two decimal places; and "Average Fare per Driver" had a dollar sign and two decimal places.


## Summary
### Recommendations
